Subject: Getting Manuals
From: Dan_Jacobson@ATT.COM & Chip Webb (Charles_A_Webb@ATT.COM)
Date: 1991-6-28
Revised: pegasus!billc (Bill Carpenter)
Revised-Date: 23 March 1992

Now let's see...  you've done "toolman gnuemacs" and "toolnews gnuemacs"
and ran gnuemacs...  but you really ought to have the GNU Emacs manual
(~300 pages) or the [GNU] Emacs Lisp Reference manual (~550 pages).

The GNU Emacs manual is available directly from the Free Software
Foundation (FSF) for a modest fee ($20 by mail (as of 2/1990), but
also available at finer computer bookstores).  It is phototypeset,
offset printed, and spiral bound; it includes a reference card.
Ordering information can be found on-line by typing C-h C-d (or
whatever the function describe-distribution is bound to) or in
$TOOLS/lib/gnuemacs/dist/etc/DISTRIB.

The AT&T Library Network Bookstore (1-908-949-2665, or use the
"library" command) stocks it.  Ask for "GNU Emacs Manual" (not the 500
page GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual).  [ Note also that Library
Command order confirmations may have a standard "estimated cost" etc.
listed which is different from the real cost. ]  The library can also
lend it to you.

We have reports that a person sending a check direct to the FSF for
the GNU Emacs Manual received a manual in only 3 days, however there's
a lot of variation in order fulfillment.  While you are waiting,
remember that all the manuals are on-line in the info-reader (type C-h i).

The GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual can be bought from the FSF.  The
AT&T Library Network Bookstore also features it.  The library can also
lend it to you.

For those who don't like nicely bound things and would rather do it
the semi-hard way and print it themselves, etc.:

Since these manuals are written in TeXinfo, and are formatted using
TeX, they theoretically can be printed anywhere TeX is installed and
working.  However, the easiest way for us (the exptools providers) to
distribute these manuals to people who insist on not buying the nicely
bound copies is in PostScript format.  For information on getting the
TeXinfo or PostScript versions, see the tips file "GettingSources".
It is preferred that you print them on a double sided PostScript
printer to save paper, otherwise it gets too big and ugly and really
isn't worth the effort.

An even easier method of getting a non-nicely bound copy of these
manuals is to find someone who has printed out a copy already and
photocopy that.  Copying a nicely bound copy is more difficult.

[2/1991: We have lots of manuals (in PostScript) available for
anonymous ftp(1) from bell1.hdtv.att.com.  See "GettingSources".]
