Experimental Tools (exptools) allows AT&T employees to share tools.  As a
potential tool provider, you should be aware of the conditions we agreed to in
order to get the exptools logins on the Computer Center machines.

  1.  No tools can be setuid/setgid for security reasons (if you don't know
      what this means don't worry about it).

  2.  The set of tools will be the same on all machines, as far as is possible
      (those termed standard tools).  The only exceptions are tools (termed
      optional tools) that only work on a particular machine type, and tools
      that take up a large amount of disk space.  Optional tools are installed
      by the local exptools administrators (see "providers admin" command
      output) when requested by their customers, who can use the toolinfo
      command to see if they want the optional tool package.  If your tool is
      optional you will need to provide a toolinfo description, which is
      usually the initial toolnews.

  3.  The exptools login can be moved to a new file system to aid in load
      balancing.  This means that full path names cannot be compiled into
      executable files, so shell scripts must use $TOOLS and C programs must
      use getenv("TOOLS") to find the exptools home directory and append the
      exptools path name of a file, e.g. "lib/emacs/helpfile".  Do not use the
      logdir command to set $TOOLS in your shell script as this will slow down
      your script and wastes CPU time; just print an error message if it is not
      set, e.g.

           : ${TOOLS:?environment variable is not set or is not exported}

      In addition, no machine names may be compiled into executable files; the
      tool must use uname(2) to determine the system name if necessary.

  4.  Man pages must be provided for all tools, but they can be linked together
      if several tools are described on the same man page.

  5.  Man pages must be already formatted to avoid overloading a machine when a
      customer requests all man pages to be printed.

Man pages must be formatted with this command

    nroff -man tool.1 >1.tool

or this command if you need the tbl preprocessor

    tbl tool.1 | nroff -man | col >1.tool

Some tools will require additional documentation, which can go in a 1._t_o_o_l_doc
file

    nroff -mm tool.mm >1.tool_doc

Do not use half line spacing (.sp .5) as this causes the following line to
overstrike the previous line and the page break to shift up on the Xerox 9700
printers used by some Computer Centers.

On your man pages use the macro

    .TH TOOL 1 EXPTOOLS

to make the header for the man page, where TOOL is your tool package name in
all capital letters.

If the tool is used elsewhere and EXPTOOLS is not appropriate in the header,
place a macro string reference in the .TH macro as in

    .TH TOOL 1 \*(eX

and then format the man page with

    (echo ".ds eX EXPTOOLS"; cat tool.1) | nroff -man >1.tool

This will make sure that the tool is identified in EXPTOOLS, but also allow for
the fact that it is a awkward to edit the file before distributing it
elsewhere.

Because of the exptools distributed "Table of Contents" and "Permuted Index,"
the following requirements should also be met

  1.  The description following the name of the command in the NAME section of
      the man page must not extend over more than one line.

  2.  One of the names of the command in the NAME section must match one of the
      names of the man page files. That is, if the file is called 1.punt, the
      name line should read

          punt - drop back 10 yards

  3.  Note that the command name should not be capitalized.  If the man page
      has multiple links, then there should be a separate line under the NAME
      section for each link.  No bold or italic type should be used in the NAME
      entry.

It is a good idea to add a ----VVVV option to print the tool's version number and
exit, so you can verify that a customer reporting a problem is using the latest
version.  If not, the _w_h_e_r_e command shows what bin the tool is in.  If it is in
exptools, the _r_u_g_i_n_f_o command shows if the customer's exptools is up-to-date.

Tools submitted to exptools are maintained by the provider.  Only the
executables and man pages, plus any required data files are distributed to the
exptools machines.  Source is not part of the exptools distribution process;
customers who need it to port your tool to an unsupported machine type will ask
you for it.  We expect you to port your tool to all supported machine types if
possible, even though you can't test it on all because you don't have access to
all types.  We have people willing to consult about porting problems.  Our
customers will tell you if your tool doesn't work, and you can debug the
problem through them, or they can give you temporary access to their machine.

There are several commands in $TOOLS/adm/bin that you use to remotely make,
distribute, and otherwise maintain your tool(s).

Command     Synopsis

rmake       Remotely makes a tool on a machine type (like vax).  A machine type
            of "all" sends the compilation request to the rmake machine for all
            supported types.  You must use rmake even for your home machine's
            type because of variations in machines, e.g. paging executables
            won't run on swapping machines.  rmake will always make on a
            machine whose executable will work on all machines of that type.
            Your makefile must use "$(CC)" instead of "cc" and not set CC to
            anything because rmake sets "CC='cc -Kc'" in the environment for
            3b2's to compile so the executables will work on 3b2's without a
            MAU (Math Accelerator Unit).  This command and others below will
            prompt you for a password that will be supplied to you.

prpkg       Lists the update or create permissions for your tool package's
            files and directories.

repfile     Adds or replaces a file on one, some, or all machine types.

delfile     Deletes a file on one, some, or all machine types.  Use it to
            remove obsolete files in the future.

pkgaudit    Remotely executes the ls -l and sum commands on all the files in
            your tool package and mails you the results.

machines    Used by the above commands to translate a machine type alias such
            as "all" or optional tool package name such as "emacs" to a list of
            machines.  You can get a list of machine types and their oldest
            supported operating system release, minimum supported hardware
            configuration, whether the byte order is most/least significant
            byte (msb/lsb), and whether they have various software packages
            (dmd,630,CC,X) used to rmake tools, with

                 machines -a all | cut -c24-

Enter the command name without arguments to get further information about
command usage and arguments.  You can print man pages for them with

    toolman -X -D provider \*

The general layout of exptools relative to $TOOLS is

Directory/File                   Contents

bin/                             main executable compiled file(s) or shell
                                 script(s)

fbin/                            ksh functions

man/                             1.* man page file(s)

lib/toolnews/_p_a_c_k_a_g_e             tool package news file (removed after 6
                                 months)

lib/toolinfo/_p_a_c_k_a_g_e/description optional tool package description file

lib/_p_a_c_k_a_g_e/                     any other files and directories

To submit a tool you must provide

  1.  A man page meeting the above specifications (it can be unformatted as
      toolsubmit will format it).

  2.  A toolnews(EXPTOOLS) file introducing the tool, which includes your name
      and electronic mail address, and that of any co-providers.

  3.  A list of files with paths relative to $TOOLS.  Please limit file and
      directory names to 14 characters so packages are portable to machine
      types running System V Release 2 and 3.

  4.  Whether the tool package will contain any compiled files or other binary
      files where byte order is significant, that is, files that can't be
      copied directly to a different machine type.  (If your answer is no,
      "all" will be put in the machine type list for the package so it will
      automatically be copied to new machine types.)

  5.  Your support level for the tool (higher levels include lower levels)

           6       Provider makes major enhancements.
           5       Provider makes minor enhancements.
           4       Provider fixes bugs.
           3       Provider ports tool to new machine types.
           2       Provider reports bugs to author or supporting
                   organization or will send source to the bug finder,
                   and installs any bug fixes received.
           1       Provider answers questions and suggests how to work
                   around bugs.

We may respond with requests for man page corrections, to organize the tool
files differently, or to change the tool name to make it more meaningful and
easier to say over the phone (e.g. "regress" vs. "rgrss" or "Regress") for
consulting on customer problems.  We decide whether to make the tool package
optional based on the size (as indicated by the number of files) and how broad
the expected customer base is.  We will let you know when your tool package is
approved and will supply you with the rmake/repfile password to enable you to
remotely compile and distribute your package.

Once your tool is installed you may want to know how much is it used.  We can
provide monthly usage for about 5000 people on about 20 IH ibm machines, which
is a good sample.  Most smaller machines do not keep accounting records. We
have discussed a logging and reporting mechanism, but space is tight on many
machines and log files would use it up, causing administration problems.  It is
difficult to find an absolutely reliable way of trimming log files without
losing data that would continuously run and audit and restart itself if needed,
like a switching system does.  Do not have your tool send mail to yourself on
each usage because:

  1.  Exptools gets manually copied to secure, isolated machines, and the SA's
      have to constantly dump this queued mail and regard it as a security
      violation.

  2.  We once had to remove a tool because it was sending mail to a machine
      that had been removed.

  3.  It can slow down execution several seconds on small machines like 3b2's
      and i386 PC's.

  4.  There is a potential for a disastrous overload of the mail network, as
      some exptools are use over 200K times/month on the IH ibm machines alone,
      and this would attract harsh management attention that might cause the
      demise of exptools as we know it.

We expect you to notify us if you are leaving the company so we can find
another provider for your tool package, otherwise we will make it an
unsupported tool and may phase it out.

If you have any further questions please contact us via electronic mail only.

     Exptools Administrators
     att!exptools











