I have updated 730windows to add the following...

New options to "warp" the cursor on tile, untile, and swap
have been added.

-warptile will cause the mouse cursor to move to the tile on a tile
operation.

-warpuntile will cause the mouse cursor to move to the window on an
untile operation.

-warpswap will cause the mouse cursor to move the
window that you select in the screen managers window when you change
screens.

There are two new agent(1) calls available to tile and untile windows.
This allows shell applications to tile or untile windows automatically.

You can now specify the scale of the screen manager window when it is
active and inactive as different sizes.  This should allow easier
use of the screenmanger without having to delete or tile it if it gets in
the way.  By default, the active scale will now be 7 and the inactive
scale will be 3.  You can change these values with the -scrscale and
-scrinscale options respectively.  The mouse cursor will zoom to the corrent
region of the window as it changes from inactive to active.

There is now a crude facility for setting the tile image associated with
particular windows.  Look at the manual page for 730settile.  It allows
you to download a tile, and then use button one to select which window
gets that tile.  Due to the current terminal software architecture it
is not possible to map a tile into the current window by downloading
something (wproc reboots in that window and all of its old memory is
freed).  Until I discover a way around this, the 730settile command
will not actually work in the window that you download into.

I have added a stackback trace facility into the fault handling of the
terminal.  If you get a process or system exception, you will hopefully
get stack backtrace information.  Sending that information to the
provider of the software you suspect is causing the problem may help
them fix the problem.  I did this specifically for some odd problems
that people are reporting with 730windows, so don't be afraid to
send me this information.

I have made some optimizations to the screen managers drawing to
avoid some annoying flickers when it is displayed in larger sizes.

-------------- old news ----------------

I have updated 730windows to correct some problems dealing with the screen
manager.

All paths of exit from the screen manager were not correctly tracked.  This
resulted in certain parts of 730windows not knowing that the process had
terminated.  They would then proceed to do things which would crash the
terminal.  This bug has been fixed.

Two new command line options, and corresponding menu items have been
added to allow the old borders to be selected.  '-borderold' selects
the old borders and '-bordernew' selects the new borders (which is
the default).
