Tool:      soarchive, sounarchive
Provider:  Bryan R. Davies IH 6C-302 708-979-3669 att!bryan_r_davies
Info:      toolman soarchive
           toolman sounarchive
Subject:   Distribution of bug fix.

Fixed a bug where a file with lots and lots (and LOTS) of .so's in a file
could cause program to crash from forking too many processes, resulting
in a "System Resource Temporarily Unavailable" error.

Thanks to Dennis Johnson for discovering this bug.

---
Bryan R. Davies, AT&T Bell Labs			Email: att!bryan_r_davies
5ESS Switch NSD Core Architecture		or-   bryan_r_davies@att.com
NA8340900 IH 6C-306 708-979-3669


------ OLD NEWS ------ (text has been abbreviated)

Tool:      soarchive, sounarchive
Provider:  Bryan R. Davies IH 6C-302 708-979-3669 att!bryan_r_davies
Info:      toolman soarchive
           toolman sounarchive
Subject:   Version 1.0 Installation

The soarchive and sounarchive exptools have been installed on this machine.
These utilities allow the user perform the equivalent of a soexpand(1)
on a file, but transparent troff comments are placed around the .so
lines in the source file so that it is possible to extract the
original files referenced by the .so and recreate the original top level
file using the sounarchive command.

So why would one wish to use the soarchive(1) command rather than
the more familiar soexpand(1) command in exptools?

As an example of the expected usage of soarchive and sounarchive,
consider the case where a database is used to store and retrieve files
for edit.  This kind of action is typical of test script databases, for
instance.  If the files are in the form of troff(1) commands, then users
will wish to be able to use the .so macro to include such things as pic
files created with the command.  Usually, the file-add, file-get, and
file-put commands for these databases do not have any facility for handling
included files, such as the .so macro implies.  So the user normally must
expand the file and place that in the database.  If he/she then wishes to
get the file for edit, it is necessary for the user to strip out the
included file (especially if it was created using the xcip command) using
an editor, modify the various resultant files, re-expand them, and then
submit the file to the database.  The soarchive and sounarchive commands
provide an easy facility for doing these operations automatically.

Consult the exptools manual page for soarchive or sounarchive for
further information.

---
Bryan R. Davies, AT&T Bell Labs			Email: att!bryan_r_davies
5ESS Switch NSD Core Architecture		or-   bryan_r_davies@att.com
NA8340900 IH 6C-306 708-979-3669
